your plane is crashing, you're going to
just continue to assume you're going to
find somewhere to land or if you have no
way to bail out and you're just going to
fly all the way through the crash. And
sometimes you'll be surprised that
you're still alive at the end of it. So
there's this thing about it which is oh
I I how do I want to be in this moment?
And because that's the certainty that
you're actually getting in a weird way.
It's like how do I want to be? I want to
be like I'm flying through the crash.
Like I I can create something better.
[Music]
Welcome back to the art of
accomplishment where we explore living
the life you want with enjoyment and
ease. I'm here today with Joe Hudson. My
name is Brett Kistler. Today we're going
to talk about uncertainty. We're going
to talk about how to make the most of
uncertainty. We're going to give you
some tools and tips and tricks that you
can use to navigate uncertainty in your
life. and we're going to talk about
three common pitfalls that people
experience when they are navigating
uncertainty in their lives. Hope you
enjoy it. Joe, we live in really
uncertain
times. Uncertain. Holy [__]
We do. Yeah. You know, we're living in
times of geopolitical uncertainty. We're
living in times of market uncertainty.
We're living in times of AI rising and
eating seemingly everything right now.
Yeah. And people are scared. Yeah. And
so a lot of people have been asking us,
especially in these past few weeks and
months, about how to how to navigate
uncertainty and to really thrive and uh
and move forward in their lives with
conviction, with uh being able to make
decisions. Yeah. In in the midst of all
this uncertainty. Yeah. So I'd love to
talk about that today. Yeah, sounds
great. I'd love that. Awesome. So, let's
just get started. What is uncertainty?
Uncertainty is what's happening now.
Like right now, we are not certain about
how this podcast is going to go. We are
not certain about if it's going to be a
good podcast. We're not certain really
ever of anything. Our brain creates a
trick on us where we are predicting and
we're saying, "Oh, I wake up and I I get
breakfast and I go to work, whatever it
is that I do." So, I can pretty much
predict that. And therefore, since I can
predict it with pretty good accuracy, I
call that certainty. But in reality,
there is no such thing as certainty. You
might wake up and your house might fall
on you. You might wake up
and your kid's sick that day. You might
wake up
and you know we've entered World War II.
There are times that are more
predictable and less predictable, but
there's no really such thing as a
certain time. Nobody sat down in 19 in
2010 and said, "I'm certain that 2020
would look the way 2020 looked." Nobody.
Nobody. Yeah. And if they did, they were
wrong. Yeah. Which is why I imagine out
of all the people listening to this
podcast right now, probably most of them
are like, "How can I find some more
certainty in this world?" And there's
maybe some sub subset that are like,
"Woo, uncertainty. This is awesome."
Right. Right. Yeah. But, you know, we
were we evolved our nervous systems
developed in much more stable times.
Yeah. Over a very long time. Yeah. And
so we've we've never seen our bodies,
our biology has never seen times like
this. We've seen other kinds of times,
you know, meteors, definitely some
periods of rapid change, but nothing
quite like this on a environmental
level, a social level. Yeah. On all
these levels of complexity that didn't
even exist. Yeah. I think the the the
thing is that we have cycles. Nature has
cycles. There's, you know, if you look
in Redwood's historic record, there was
big fires every 50 years, small fires
every five.
There are the cycle of the predator and
the prey and how their populations go up
and down. There's these moments of not
enough food, moments of too much food.
So there's this natural cycle that we
have the humans have this 80year cycle
that we have where we redefine our
institutions every 80-ish years.
So there's these cycles and in those
moments of transformation that moments
of like rapid change it's actually when
you get the best the biggest opportunity
to have to change something much much
better for for the better.
It's the like in our business you see it
all the time. I got divorced and I got
into this work and now my whole life is
better. I lost my
job. My son got sick. Like those moments
of rapid, holy [__] everything's
changing are the moments where you start
questioning, where you see yourself in a
different light, where you are forced to
be put into a position that you haven't
been put in before. And so you have to
see yourself differently. Yeah. And so
when we find ourselves in a different
position than we're normally in, whether
we're just like, "Oh, we're going to go
travel through Southeast Asia or
whether somebody gets elected and it
changes the entire landscape of the
markets." That is the
most that's like that that is the time
of the most opportunity. That is the
time where massive transformation within
yourself, positive transformation and
negative transformation can happen in
yourself or can happen in a culture. And
you can consistently look through
companies, you can look through
um uh empires, you can look through
marriages. Those moments of like, oh
[__] I don't know what's going on, is
when the most change happens. The
question is, how do you take advantage
of those moments to have positive
change? Have a change where you feel
better in your life rather than negative
in your life. Yeah. It's interesting
that makes me want to upend an
assumption that I made earlier. Yeah.
Which is that we live in the most
uncertain times when in reality I am the
most certain that I've ever been that
I'm not going to be eaten by a wild
animal. Correct. Yeah. I was thinking
the same thing. we as a species
um there's there's kind of there's a
form of rapid change that we have always
been dealing with and that's what makes
me say at the beginning you know
the everything is uncertain I think that
frame of saying oh this this is
uncertainty all it's doing is saying
this time is only bringing a mirror to
the reality of our situation which is
transformation you you are not the same
person you a decade ago, a year ago.
Nobody who's listening to this podcast
is. They might want to convince
themselves that they are. So, we're all
changing. It's all changing all the
time. Yeah. So, we we can't deny that
uncertainty is everpresent. Yeah. And
there's ways it's increasing. There's
ways it's decreasing. It's always
changing. And what I also can't deny is
that there is a tendency, there is a
desire, an instinct to create a sense of
certainty.
Yes. It seems to be innate in us.
There's a desire to both create a sense
of certainty and to and and get lack of
certainty. I'll give you some examples.
Uh could you imagine you're like I am
going to marry this person and and I'm
told from on high with with no
uncertainty that this is the way the
marriage is going to be. This is how
you're going to feel for the entire
marriage. Even more, say any retreat
that we run, we don't tell people what's
going to happen every step of the way
before it occurs because we don't even
know what's going to happen. Yeah. Often
we have a sense of the arc. But yeah,
but but if we did,
then there would be less transformation.
And so there's part of us and and
neurologically speaking, there's
dopamine involved. You uncertainty
creates some dopamine if it's in the
short term. And so what that what that
all means is that there's a part of us
that likes uncertainty. We know we
thrive off of uncertainty on some level.
We want the adventure. We want the
movie. We want the song to be a little
different than every other pop song. We
want that like uncertain twist. And then
there's some window of tolerance where
we we're either living with uncertainty
for so long that it starts making us
neurologically making us have more
cortisol and and therefore we start
thinking more negatively. we start
doomsday or we go out of that window of
tolerance and we start trying to exact
control and trying and we get rigid or
we get to the point where we're just not
as effective. And so often times what
humans are looking for is to be in this
perfect window of tolerance. Yeah. But
massive transformation doesn't happen in
that window of tolerance very often.
It's very rare that massive
transformation happens in that window of
tolerance. Well, there's a much broader
window of tolerance. is the window of
comfort and there's things you can do to
expand that window of tolerance for
yourself. There's ways that you can
relate to yourself that grow it. And u
one of the things that I'm reminded of
right now is, you know, when I was in
base jumping in the kind of outdoors
lifestyle, there was always this like
slow trickle of people who were coming
into the sport from like corporate
America for example or the corporate
world. And there's one particular friend
I remember, she lived in San Francisco.
She became a researcher. She got her
PhD. She landed a big job at the big
company. She moved into her house. And
she said that literally the specific
moment that she finished picking out the
drapes and hung the drapes and finished
building her
home. She realized she could predict the
next couple decades of her life and
immediately panicked. left her job, left
everything, bought a van, and then drove
off into into the mountains and did
adventuring. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, just
look at teenage girls. It's like, "Oh,
everything's stable.
Nope. Now we've got some drama." Yeah.
Like we there's some level of
uncertainty that makes us feel alive and
we want it. Um It's like we want it on
our terms. Yeah. We want it on our
terms. When uncertainty hits us in the
face, Yeah.
That's that can be really challenging to
to navigate and I think that's the kind
of thing people are asking. Yes. When
they're asking these questions, but also
there's the there's the other side of
it. If we're not navigating uncertainty
and we're not able to hold the
uncertainty and we're avoiding and
trying to control it and it's futile,
but also if we're trying if we're
succeeding Yeah. in reducing uncertainty
in our lives, that's also equally
unhealthy. Yeah. Yeah. It can sure can
be. Yeah. Yeah. What's amazing to me
about it is that that there's
a so I I have a high tolerance for
uncertainty. I love uncertainty. Now,
part of that is because I lived with a
volatile alcoholic in my childhood. And
so, and what I noticed is that typically
when people lived in that kind of
experience, they went one of two ways.
They became very adaptive to the
uncertainty or they became very
controlling, very rigid, needing
everything to be and you can see this in
alcoholic like lineage. Oftentimes
there's the alcoholic that creates this
chaos. Then there's this Alanon person
who creates a lot
of lot of rigidity, a lot of control and
structure that makes their
offspring feel super controlled and the
more alcoholism which makes enough chaos
where the next generation does control.
And both Taran and I can like look back
on our lineage and we can see that
lineage reproducing itself over two,
three, four generations. M so so there
is this interesting balance. I was you
know bred to be an alcoholic. I was bred
to have the chaos and then continue the
chaos. My sister probably more was bred
to be in control. And but the there's
just this thing about because I was
raised the way I was. I got to see how
much goodness can come from getting hit
over the head
with with with chaos. how much you know
uncertainty when it slaps you in the
face can actually be this really
beautiful thing. And I think one of the
things that you spoke to that I I don't
think it I see it all the time is that
when somebody owns it like oh I'm going
out on an
adventure then there's this different
way in which you approach the
uncertainty and often times in the back
of your head you can think oh I'm owning
it because I know I can go back to that
apartment I can go back to that
corporate job I can go back and like
relive you can't but you think you can
you Like if you try I've never seen
anyone successfully go back into the
corporate office and like live that same
kind of lifestyle. I even had the same
thing going back to living in the base
jumping lifestyle. I was like I came out
here and started doing this work and you
continuously grow to become larger than
your previous container. Yeah. And if
you go back into it it you can't the
thing has to break has to change. You
might be able to go back to doing
something you were doing before but
you're a different person and it's
there's a bigger space. Yeah. on some
level it seemed for me like a bigger
requirement for uncertainty even yeah
that's yes absolutely but if you can
take that ownership to whatever's
happening right and then that's the
thing that you see in corporate America
all the time and people building their
businesses and the creative types
something comes in like a forest fire
something comes in like a new
political scheme and or AI and someone's
like Oh, I'm gonna take this is an
adventure. I'm taking ownership. I I see
this as not being done to me, but as the
forest changing, and now I'm going to go
be in the forest in a different way.
Those people are the most successful.
The people who are this is being done to
me. I don't I can't control it. What am
I going to do? Oh my gosh, it's going to
go bad. Those people are often the least
successful. And then close to that close
to those people who who are in this
chronic feeling of oh this is all this
is bad I'm scared I'm scared and then
negative thinking negative thinking
there's this other one that's they don't
do quite as bad but they they also don't
do great is the the optimist it's all
going to be okay
or uh the positive thinking like oh hope
I have hope that things will change
those folks don't do so as well either
And I see that the the reality in it is
you have to face what's true.
Even if you don't know, even if you
don't know, you can face what's true. So
you can not face what's true with
negativity. Oh my god, we're [__]
This is never going to go well. That's
not
true. This is going to be great. It's
going to be awesome. We're going to do
fantastic. That's not true. So the
optimist and the pessimist are both
seeking certainty artificially
artificially collapsing the uncertainty
into something that feels comfortable
short term. Short term but ultimately is
not connecting them to Yeah. A great a
great example of this is there's a guy
he was an admiral. I can't remember his
name
unfortunately and he got in Vietnam he
got uh put into a prison camp and lasted
years got out and he was asked who got
out who who survived and made it out and
who died. He said oh that's easy. The
person the people who made it out are
the people who knew they would make it
out.
The people
who died were the
optimists and I know and that's
fascinating nuance there fascinating
knew they would make it out could
there's a sense of certainty created in
that but you could also call that
conviction or faith right so optimism
meant in his mind optimism
meant I'll be out by Christmas
optimism meant hope that it was going to
happen soon that I wasn't going to have
to endure this thing. Whereas the ones
who knew they were going to get out were
the people who were like, I am not going
to pretend that this isn't going to be a
complete [__] hole. This isn't going to
be hell on earth. I Yeah. And I know
that I will make it to the end of that,
right? And so it's a way in which
they're they're owning the adventure.
There's an ownership in it. And and so
there is a conviction. There's like
almost a false conviction. They don't
know. Obviously, none of them knew if
they were going to die. Well, it's not
that they even know they're going to get
out, but they're just living into the
reality that they're going to get out.
So, no matter what happens, they're
looking for the data that points towards
them getting out. They're looking
towards the options that point toward
them getting out. Yes. They're not
looking for the options that give them
the false hope that they're going to be
out by Christmas and they get to avoid
feeling the fear that they're in there
forever. Exactly. And so that's the
thing is like I see people in the world
today and they're just like oh with this
and this we're all [__] and I'm just
like
like you are you are creating that
reality or I I think it's going to be
wonderful. It's going to be fine. Those
folks they're literally just trying to
convince themselves. What you're
basically saying to yourself is you
can't handle it.
You're basically saying you're not going
to be able to handle this change. Yeah.
Whereas this other one is this
ownership. Oh, I know I I I know that
there's an opportunity here. I know that
I can create that change. And and the
thing that you just said, I think that
makes it even more clear about the
ownership. It's I see a reality that I
am going to live into today.
I see a reality
where we as human beings
are better, more equipped, more
heartfelt, more openhearted in 20 years.
And I'm going to take this forest fire
that's happening and I'm going to use it
to plant the next generation of
seeds and I'm going to live like
that. or I'm gonna live like I'm scared
to death and that everything's gonna go
to [__] Yeah, I see this in companies
where there's a massive pivot that's
required. And you see this in startups
all the time where a company
goes, oh, there's something not working.
This is bad. We're going to pivot and
we're going to be successful.
And there's this way in which everybody
in that company is oh yeah this is where
we come together as a team and we pivot
and we feel like oh wow we've done
something
amazing and if you talk to CEOs and you
ask CEOs generally what was your
favorite time being a CEO it's a time
just like that where it was hard there
was some external force but we are going
to figure out how to pivot and do this
thing and we did you ask the team what
their favorite moment was or their most
formative moment and they'll generally
point to those moments as Exactly. The
whole organism. The whole organism does.
Right. And then the companies that seem
to fail are the companies that are so
big or structured in such a bureaucratic
manner that they they're they're just
hopeful thinking. They're worried about,
oh my god, AI is going to take us over.
We're [__] Instead of, oh, how do we
pivot to incorporate this new AI thing
that's happening, right? And so there's
either too much fear or too much
rigidity or too much
hope that basically makes it so that
they're not reacting to the reality
that's there and they're not taking
ownership of it. Yeah. So there's we've
got the optimist and the pessimist and
there's like a kind of silent third one
that sort of masquerades sometimes as
facing the uncertainty and this is the
realist. The person who says I'm not an
optimist or a pessimist. I'm a realist.
And yet they're still collapsing reality
to a certain outcome that they end up
recreating. It's not the outcome that
they want. They're not living into, as
we would say in air sports, like flying
through the crash. This is also in
aviation. If your plane is crashing,
you're going to just continue to assume
you're going to find somewhere to land
or if you have no way to bail out and
you're just going to fly all the way
through the crash. And sometimes you'll
be surprised that you're still alive at
the end of it. Right. That's amazing
thought process. Whereas you're like,
"Oh, I'm a realist. I'm out of engines.
I don't have a landing area runway. I
might as well just nose in like Right.
Right. Yeah. That would not work.
Interesting. If I think about this,
there is
a you're you're seeing reality for what
it is, but there's also an ownership of,
oh, this is how I am going to be in it.
I don't notice that I want to be really
hopeful and optimistic in uncertainty.
Like that's like sugar. Yeah. like I
want it for a short period of time but I
don't like it for a long period of time.
You do that for enough times and you get
burned by it enough that even the
feeling of
optimism luckily we have this capacity
to start detecting. Yes. Like we learn
where that goes. If I feel a certain
kind of optimism in my system, there's a
part of me that's like
uhoh something's going to go wrong
literally because I'm doing the thing
that last time I did it brought
something brought about something I
didn't want. Yeah. Yeah. And so the so
there's this thing about it which is oh
I I how do I want to be in this
moment and because that's the certainty
that you're actually getting in a weird
way. It's like how do I want to be? I
want to be like I'm flying through the
crash. How do I want to be? I want to be
like I I can create something better.
This is how I want to be in it. It's
uncertain. I'm not going to pretend that
it's not uncertain. I'm not going to be
unrealistic in the uncertainty, but I'm
also going to say, how do I want to be
in this in this time? And that's going
to be my reference point. It's not going
to be a reference point of the markets
are down, the markets are up. The that
that reference, you're [__] if that's
your reference point, right? Your
reference point has to be how do you
want to be in this moment? How do you
want to be in this time of change? And
if you look at the people who've done
that said this is how I want to be in
this time of change whether it's Winston
Churchill or Martin Luther King or
Gandhi that's what as far as leadership
goes that's what congeals humans that's
what like that's what creates movements
that's the thing that drives companies
is that level of this is how I want to
be in this situation
yeah now I'm hearing the collective
voice in the head of a lot of the
audience being like, "Okay, great. Now
you just got to be like this. Be like
the way they're just talk that Joe just
talked about right now. Like, I'm going
to be the person who flies through the
crash." Yeah. How how can somebody who
heard what we were just saying about how
do you want to be through the through
the uncertainty and feels
completely frozen or completely
disregulated? What can that person do?
So, the the first one
is most likely in that
And that incapacity is not facing a
reality. So part of the reality you're
probably making up is things are going
to go horribly wrong. And if you've been
in it for years, you've been making that
up for quite a long period of time. So
you might want to notice that things
have not gone horribly wrong or the only
thing that's gone horribly wrong has
been generated by you thinking things
are going to be horrible and go horribly
wrong. So that's one one thing to do.
The other one is that there's almost
guaranteed an emotional experience that
you are resisting in this. Right? So
there's a I don't want to be so out of
control or uncertainty so much that I
have to feel that grief or that fear or
that anger. So there's also that
component of it typically that's at
play. So that level that often can
create depression is often times for
instance and we have a whole episode on
this on anger can also often be the
anger that you're not allowing yourself
to feel. So there is that like we said
before there is that facing into what's
actually real that's important including
what's real in your emotional
experience and what's real just by
looking around and saying oh look I've
been thinking this for a decade but here
I still am. The third piece
is there is some certainty that you do
have and you're not noticing it. Let's
look at what's certain. What's certain
is right here, right now. Yeah. Like
you're here. You're safe in this
moment. You can you're with somebody who
loves you at this moment. So the brain
catastrophizes because we've got too
much cortisol going on. Our capacity to
problem solve goes away. But if you can
focus on the certainty that often can
relieve the system enough so that you
can get into regulation.
I I want to like run back through these
three points for like a real world
example and I'm going to pick a tricky
one. Okay.
So we're going to use my brother getting
cancer. Yes. So definitely there's no
way that my worrying about cancer caused
my brother to get cancer. Correct. So I
could, you know, over the course of my
life, I've seen newspapers talk about
increasing cancer rates and I might have
some concern, some worry, and then boom,
a family member gets cancer. Yes.
Uncontrollable, uncertain, total chaos.
Definitely didn't bring it about. Yes.
But let's like decompose that a little
bit. Well, let let's start with that
first one. Yeah. Facing reality. Facing
reality is don't blame yourself.
A lot of people in the face of
uncertainty their first move is to blame
themselves. Why didn't I support so- and
so more? Why didn't I do this? Why
didn't I do that? First form of
certainty
is is oh facing the truth of the
situation which is I'm not to blame for
this scenario. No one's to blame for
this scenario. There there is just
movements that create chaos and non-
chaos in the world. Do we all play a
part in all of them? Yes, we all play a
part in all of them. So yes, you can
always find some way that you are to
blame. But you know, cancer happens with
or without you. Which points to the
subtlety between taking the
responsibility for what you can take
responsibility for and taking it
personal that you are wrong, bad,
flawed. Yeah. Taking responsibility for
the adventure. I am in this adventure. I
I am choosing not that I've chosen to be
here, but I am choosing to take this as
an adventure. I'm not choosing to take
this as an oppression. Yeah. Yeah. That
brings me back to the conversation where
Scott told me he had cancer and I was
like one of the first things that I said
was like, well, there's a way
that we could have a deeper relationship
by the end of your life because of this
than otherwise. And that's a moment
where I can recall making it an
adventure. Yeah, I didn't want to face
that. I didn't want that reality. I
didn't cause it. There's ways that I
already was going into guilt and blame
about not already having as close as
possible of a relationship with him over
the decades that we've been living in
different states, countries. My god,
it's such a beautiful example of exactly
this thing
of it's I'm not optimistically saying
we're going to cure your cancer. I might
hope that it's like blah blah blah, but
I'm not I'm not acting from that. I'm
not acting from well, we're [__]
You're [__] Your family's [__]
We're saying this is what's happening
and what is the institution, the reality
that we can change through this moment
of transformation. Yeah. Okay. So, that
was part one. Part two. Yeah. Facing the
emotional Yes. piece. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Like with your brother, I I don't mean
to call you out here, but with your
brother, what I noticed is that the
longer you were in it with him, the more
you faced your emotional peace. There
was moments of like all of us going
through an adventure. There was moments
of I'm not going to face it because it's
going to be fine. There was moments
of okay, I got to hold it together.
There's moments of but there like the
more you just went into
your deep [__] grief and and pain
and being with other people's pain and
grief of this process and joy and fear
and anger and all of it the more
intimacy that I saw you got with
yourself with your
brother with with your wife with your
mother and So yeah, that's a perfect
example. And and and and also which was
really cool is you just you have
patience with yourself in that process.
It wasn't like I have to feel it all
right [__] now. You know, it doesn't
work like that. I think that sums it up
well cuz there was a titration in my
system throughout the entire process.
Yeah. You know, the the moment that I
found out, we were running a week-long
retreat. Yeah. And so yeah, totally. I
was like, "Here we are running an
emotional retreat about how to like
fluidly feel your emotions and I've got
this bombshell of news." Yeah. And I'm
balancing that with my desire to hold
this space and this container like this
process for other people. Yeah. And I
remember when when the retreat finally
finished and we all gathered at the end,
that was when I like broke down and just
cried for an hour and Yeah. Let like And
I Yeah. made that an adventure, too. I
was like, "Okay, Alexa, I want you to
hold me. Everyone else, continue to do
your like work stuff and I'm just going
to take like an hour and just go ball in
the corner." And did that. Yeah. And you
had like little moments of crying. You
were like letting the steam out of the
kettle. Like if I recall correctly, we
had that grief process. And there's some
other places, but you were
compartmentalizing enough and then boom,
you totally Yeah. So the
compartmentalizing was adaptive. It was
adaptive. Yeah. So for sometimes people
listen to our podcast and they're like,
"I need to feel my emotions all the
time." And if I'm not, then that means
I'm [__] up and I'm here comes the
self plane. Yeah. Exactly. The next the
next thing I have to do to be good
enough. Yeah. Yeah. So, let's move on to
the third piece you mentioned, the the
owning the certainty that is available.
The certainty that you do have. Yeah.
Well, in a weird way, you can see
different ways that you did that
already. Like it was certain that you
could become closer.
It was certain you Oh, that's true.
I didn't start with a story of like I'll
never be close because now he's dying,
right? I'm certain that um I can spend
more time with you was another thing you
were certain
about. I'm certain that I love
you. I'm certain that I want to be close
to
you. I'm certain that this could mean
your death.
I mean, there was never a moment where
you
were pretending that he was not going to
die. you were hopeful. There was these
moments of this thing could have worked
or blah blah blah, but it was always
there like I'm not pretending that he
couldn't
pass. Yeah. I'm just now like
recognizing all of what might have been
lost. Yeah. In my connection with him if
that had if I had approached that
differently. Yeah.
And there's also what was lost in the
ways that I was necessarily titrating my
exposure to that reality. Yeah.
Yeah. Right. Yeah. And that's a that
is all of us. Yeah. All of us. But the
the the the game is so to speak, not the
have to but the game
is right here. Like if I think about
this process through COVID for so many
people, I remember sitting down with um
a whole bunch of CEOs and CO had just
hit and this is all all these CEOs that
were in one of my groups and running big
organizations and one of them said,
"Wow, I feel like we might have to be
stuck inside for a month." And the other
person said, "Think for years. This this
could be
years." And if I look at the two
businesses, the one who was like think
for years
did just went up up up during that co
session. And the one who was like out of
this for months no I couldn't do this
for more than it their business went
down. Yeah. That just and one was
introverted one was extroverted. So it
was easier to accept that reality for
the introverted person harder for the
extroverted person. And so there is this
natural thing where we're positioned or
not positioned naturally to be able to
lean into it. And so the the the thing
is to do the titration that you're
that's necessary to just lean more and
more into the
uncertainty. And and leaning in is
another way to say take ownership of
face the
reality. And we're never going to be
perfect at it.
But if we're doing it, then we don't get
that long-term effect of uncertainty,
which is, "Oh my god, oh my god, oh my
god, and then negative thinking and then
lack of problem solving and and the
dopamine goes away. It's just a whole
different deal. It's all cortisol."
Yeah. Which is there's something
fascinating in that as well where
looking years in advance because you
can't predict as much years in advance.
You have to ask questions that are more
from wonder. And like wonder is a state
of
high uncertainty and it's like
voluntary. Yeah. To some extent
uncertainty. It's to some extent on your
terms. To some extent it's just
happening and it's grace when it
happens, right? But it's also like
there's like there's a dopamine reward
in that and just being in awe. Yeah. And
right now we're at an offsite for AOA.
We've been here for a couple of days and
and in some of our sessions we've been
talking about what does this company
look like? What does this movement look
like in 300 years? Yeah. And none of us
can make even the slimmest prediction of
what that looks like exactly. But what
that does to the mindset, what that does
to the questions we ask and the awe is a
very different story than like what is
our P&L 3 months from now. Yeah. And I
think that
that wonder is such a
beautiful thing to bring to uncertainty
because wonder and fear don't coexist
well together in the brain. The thing
about maladaptive behavior in
uncertainty is that you
are
assuming certainty where it doesn't
exist.
And wonder allows you
to
see the certainty where it does exist.
Like
I think we spoke about it a little
earlier, but there's like, oh, there's
certainty in that I'm going to get out
by Christmas. False certainty. There's
certainty that I'm [__] False
certainty,
right? And it doesn't see the actual
real certainty, which is in is in how
you want to be in what is available for
you in the moment. That's where the
certainty almost always lies. It's not
going to be in the future. It's not
going to be in the past. It is in the I
am certain I want connection with you
right
now. I am certain that this is how I
want to be in this moment. These are the
things that propel us through these
uncertain times that create a better
future instead of a worse one for either
ourselves or for our companies. And it
doesn't require optimism or hope. It
requires being with what is in the
moment.
Yeah. Points to the the most important
certainty to have
is around how we want to be. Not even
what that looks like but the principles.
Yeah. The
Yeah. If I look at COVID and the people
who were successful in CO, it was the
people who focused on how did they want
to be. I remember when we were stuck in
the house, I'm like, what I want to do
is I want to be close with my family.
what I want to do is be creative. Like
this is how I want to be in this time.
It's when AOA online courses were born.
I like the the depth of intimacy I got
with my kids during that time was
amazing. I had all this time and space
to create master class. We started this
podcast. We started this podcast. All of
this thing all this
happened because we were we knew how we
wanted to be in this situation and it
wouldn't have happened without co
and
whatever transformation slaps you in the
face. There is that much of an
opportunity there. But it doesn't come
with thinking you're [__] or thinking
everything is going to be great. It
comes with what is it that I want to be?
What is real? Where what is the thing
that I I can be certain about?
That feels good. Yeah, I'm certain that
I enjoyed the [__] out of this
conversation. So did I. It was a good
one.
What a pleasure, Brett. Yeah. Thank you,
Joe. Yeah.
[Music]